Lesson Title: Life Cycle of Frogs
Teacher Name: TDS Education Team
Subject: Science - Biology
Grade: 8
Date: not applicable
Duration: 1 session 50 minutes
Key Vocabulary: Eggs, Tadpole, Froglet, Adult Frog
Supporting Materials: Video, Laptops, Microsoft Office, TDS LSM, Live Worksheets, Others
Learning Outcome: 
Knowledge: Students will demonstrate knowledge of the life cycles of frogs. 
Skills: Students will be able to differentiate the various stages in the life cycle of a frog. 
Understanding: Students will demonstrate understanding of the importance of frogs in ecosystems and can analyze the environmental interdependencies.

Differentiation:
For students needing additional support: The teacher can provide students with diagrams/visually simple presentations of the cycle of a frog's life to support their understanding of the concept. 
For students needing additional challenge: Students can be given extra reading materials, videos, research and facts, as to take a deeper and more analytical look at the lifecycle, uncovering more information and issues related to the environment.

Learning Experiences:
Prepare: Teacher can show a video to help reinforce what they already know about frogs and ask general questions about a frogs life and its cycle. 
Plan: Teacher will provide students with an activity to list down each stage of the frogs life cycle such and discuss the significance of each one.
Teach: Teacher can then discuss a few examples of life cycles in more depth to show the complexities of each of these stages.
Apply: Students will conduct individual research to create a case study on at least one stage of the frog’s life cycle that should support the discussed material. 
Connect: The teacher can prompt debate by using a round table-discussion synopsis among the students with well-structured questions to demonstrate relevance of the affected environment.
Evaluate and Reflect: After the activity, the teacher could have the students create a presentation, infographic, etc to share and reflect upon the identified stages, and make connections between the topic they studied and the world around them.

Educator Assessment:
The educator can assess the student’s understanding of the frog's life cycle and its interdependence among ecosystems by issuing an 80 question quiz that is focused on testing reported and discussed knowledge, skill-sets and concepts revealed in the round table discussion. The educator can further assess the answers given to differentiated questions that students can answer. 
Encourage student reflection through assessment based questions where educational rubrics are used.

Educator Reflection: 
Educator's reflection for this lesson is to be aware of necessary topics to be discussed for easier understanding of the unit to the students. The educator can improve the lesson by  reorganizing the activities and display a more rounded approach into the content which requires deepening information absorption. Activities can be changed to complement the lesson as this can help some students to increase retention on topics and stimulate higher level applications on topics. Also addressed is the structure and procedure of discussion, especially when different groups have to explain something flowing the round-table mechanics.  Developing strategies for possible conflicts or possible arguments that could spring up in this format can also help to provide a better learning environment.  The teacher can also include deeper analysis as to let students realize on their own observations from research to help them form connections and engage in discovery throughout the learning experience.